+++
title = "AGU2019"
date = 2019-10-10T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2019-12-09T13:00:00
time_end = 2019-12-13T15:00:00

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The United States EPA Greenhouse Gas Inventory only recently updated the emission factors of natural gas gathering pipelines in April 2019 from the previous estimates based on a 1990s study of distribution pipelines. Additional measurements are needed from different basins for more accurate assessments of methane emissions from natural gas midstream industries and hence the overall climate implications of natural gas as the interim major energy source for the next decade. To address the knowledge gap, National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) has conducted an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) survey and a mobile sampling campaign targeting gathering pipeline systems in Ohio located in the Appalachian Basin from March to May in 2019. We will use the same mobile sampling setup to survey 800 km of gathering pipelines in New Mexico (300 km, San Juan Basin) and Colorado (500 km, Piceance Basin) in September 2019. Out of 73 km of pipelines surveyed in Ohio, we found two leaks on the same block valve with leak rates of 3.8 ± 0.4 and 7.6 ± 0.8 mg/s during the mobile sampling. The UAV sampling system facilitated ease of access, broadened the availability of pipelines for leak detection, and was estimated to detect methane leaks down to 0.08 g/s using Gaussian dispersion modeling. We found no leaks out of 56 km of pipelines surveyed by the UAV system. The low leak frequency phenomenon was also observed in a similar gathering pipeline study of Fayetteville Shale. Since the Ohio study was only conducted in a single basin, we could not extrapolate our results of methane emission rates to a regional or national level. For future UAV surveys, we recommend arranging controlled release experiments to understand the system’s detection limit and choosing sampling days with steady and low wind speeds (2 m/s)."
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "American Geophysical Union 2019"
event_url = "https://www.agu.org/Fall-Meeting"

# Location of event.
location = "San Francisco, California, USA"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

Embed your slides or video here using [shortcodes](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/post/writing-markdown-latex/). Further details can easily be added using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
